# LoT 5x5 Grid Experiment

[GitHub Repository](https://github.com/AmiineA/project-sequence-cognition)
This is a behavioral experiment implementation testing the **Language of Thought (LoT)** hypothesis on spatial sequences. The participant observes a sequence of dots on a 5x5 grid and must predict the location of the next dot.

The goal is to demonstrate that sequences generated by simple geometric rules are easier to predict than arithmetic or random sequences.

## Usage

To launch the experiment, run the main script from the project root : 
python main.py

## Experimental Design

The session si divided into two phases:
1. Training: 2 simple sequences (Line, Snake) to familiarize the participant with the interface.
2. Test : 8 different sequences of increasing compexity.

## Sequences (Test Phase)

1. Concentric Squares: Closed shapes (Gestalt closure)
2. Spiral: Inward rotation
3. Sliding Diagonal: Continuous oblique movement (+4 step)
4. Diagonal ZigZag
5. Jumps (+2): Simple discontinuity (1 dot gap)
6. Jumps (+3): Medium discontinuity (2 dots gap)
7. Incremental Jumps: Arithmetic sequence (+0, +1, +2, +3...)
8. Irregular: Random sequence

## Background / inspiration 
This project is a 2D grid adaptation of research on the mental compression of geometrical sequences. It is directly inspired by the following article :
Al Roumi, F., Marti, S., Wang, L., Amalric, M., & Dehaene, S. (2021). Mental compression of spatial sequences in human working memory.

## Author

Amrani Mohamed Amine
